In the previous video, we already
practice with vlan. I said before,
that if the two PC is in the different vlan,
so that two PC is in the broadcast domain.
Now in this video, I will show you that
if two PC is in the different vlan or
different broadcast domain, so that two PC
will not able to communicate each others.
Let’s try it. Here let’s try to ping from PC 1
to PC 3. Here we can see that this is failed.
Why? Because this two PC is in
the different broadcast domain.
This 2 PC, logically connected to different
switch. Here we have logical switch for vlan 10,
and here we also have logical switch for vlan
20. This 2 logical switch is not connected each others.
That is why PC that connected to logical
switch vlan 10 will not able to communicate with
PC that connected to logical switch vlan 20.
Actually we can configure so between vlan
can communicate each others, but we will
learn about that later in the next video.
For now, just understand that each vlan
will not able to communicate each others.
For testing again, let’s try to send a packet
from PC 1 to PC 4. Okay here we
can see that this is also failed.
Okay so remember that if two PC is in the
different vlan or different broadcast domain,
so that two PC will not able to
communicate each others.
Although the ip address is in the same block subnet.
So here, we can see that PC 1 and PC 3
is in the same block subnet, the ip address
of PC 1 is 192.168.1.1, and the ip address of
PC 3 is 192.168.1.3, so the ip address of
this two PC is in the same block subnet.
but this two PC is in the different vlan. So this
two PC still can not communicate each others.
But You need to remember that each vlan must be
in the different block subnet. So let’s say in
the vlan 10, the ip address is 192.168.10.0, and
in the vlan 20, the ip address is 192.168.20.0.
In this case, we can see that different vlan
using ip address in the same block subnet.
This is because just for learning.
Okay I think enough for this video. Thankyou
for watching and see you on the next video.